1. Instructor Email: Does the outline include the instructor's email? An acceptable email must end with “ucalgary.ca”; this MUST be present in the email. 
2. Course Objectives: Are the course objectives listed and numbered?
3. Textbooks & Other Course Material: Are any textbooks, readings, and additional course materials listed? (IF APPLICABLE). 
4. Prohibited Materials: Check for information that details any prohibited platforms, resources, and tools that cannot be used to complete coursework and the assignments. This would include books, texts, and generative artificial intelligence (AI) tools. 
5. Course Workload: Is there a course workload section? 
6. Grading Scale: Does the course outline include the Grade Scale header and any additional information about the Grade Scale?
7. Grade Distribution Table – 1: Does the course outline include a Grade Distribution statement? Validate that the assessments listed in the table have weights assigned to them and, that these assessment components are used in determining the final grade.
8. Grade Distribution Table – 2: Compare the overall weightings for individual assignments that are detailed in the Grade Distribution Table. If the group work exceeds 40% of the overall final grade, highlight this section. 
9. Grade Distribution Table – 3: In the Grade Distribution Table, check that each assessment indicates which objectives are being measured. 
10. Grade Distribution Table – 4: Does the grade distribution table include due dates for all of the assignments and examinations included? 
11. Assignments – 1: According to the due dates listed for the assignments on the Grade Distribution Table, will the students receive AT LEAST 30% of their final grade before the last day of classes? If they will, mark this item as completed. If students WILL NOT have received at least 30% of their total grade before the last day of classes, flag this item as NOT completed. 
12. Assignments – 2: Are there any assignments included in the Grade Distribution Table that are due after the last day of classes? Flag the Grade Distribution Table if an assignment is scheduled to be due after the last day of classes.
13. Missed Assessment Policy Header: Check that the outline has a missed assessment policy header. Flag if missing. 
14. Late Policy Header: Check that the outline has a Late Policy header. Highlight if missing. 
15. Participation: If class participation is listed in the Grade Distribution Table, ensure that details are provided on the terms of this assessment. 
16. Assignment Details: Are details on the assignment included in the course outline (including instructions on how the assignment should be submitted)? Highlight if these details are not present. 
17. Group Project Details: If a group project is listed in the Grade Distribution Table, ensure that there are details included for this assignment (including the due date for the first group work assignment). 
18. Mid Term or Quizes – 1: If a Midterm or Quiz is listed in the grade distribution table, is there also i nformation including the timing, location, modality, and any technology requirements for the Midterm or Quiz? Does the outline list items that students may take into the final exam?
19. Final Exam – 1: If a Final Exam is listed in the Grade Distribution Table, is there information on the timing, location, modality, and any technology requirements for the final exam included in the description? Also, does the outline list items that students may take into the exam?
20. Final Exam – 2: In the Grade Distribution Table, does the Final Exam count for LESS THAN 50% of the final grade? Flag this item if the Final Exam counts for more than 50% fo the final grade. 
21. Final Exam – 3: If there is a Take-Home Final Examination identified in the course outline, flag this component for administration review.  
22. Contact your Instructor: Is the "Contacting Your Instructor" section included? 
23. Class Schedule & Topics – 1: Is there a Class Schedule and Topics page or table included on the last page of the outline? If there is no Class Schedule and Topics page or table included on the last page of the outline, mark this item as not completed.This may not be exclusively provided on the course outline, it may be embedded within other sections of the course outline
24. Class Schedule & Topics – 2: Does the Class Schedule & Topics table/page include due dates for each of the assignments? If the Class Schedule & Topics table/page does not include due dates for each of the assessments, mark this item as not complete . This requirement may be embedded in the grade distribution table 
25. Class Schedule & Topics – 3: Does the Class Schedule & Topics page include Exam/Quick dates? The dates may also be provided in the grade distribution table 
26. Links: Validate all of the links included in the course outline. Are all of the links included in the course outline working? If all of the links included in the course outline do not work, mark this item as not completed.  




